README.md, before:

# Advanced Trading Strategy with Support/Resistance Validation

A comprehensive trading strategy application with both historical analysis and real-time simulation capabilities.

## Features

### Enhanced Trading Strategy
- **Moving Average Crossover Signals**: 20-day MA crossing 50-day MA
- **Support/Resistance Validation**: Confirms signals only when price breaks key levels
- **Multiple Technical Indicators**: RSI, MACD, Bollinger Bands
- **Signal Quality Filtering**: Distinguishes between initial and confirmed signals

### Two Strategy Modes
1. **Historical Analysis**: Backtest strategies on historical data
2. **Real-Time Simulation**: Simulate live market conditions with streaming data

### Visualization
- Interactive Plotly charts
- Clear signal markers (initial vs confirmed)
- Support/resistance level visualization
- Moving averages and Bollinger Bands overlay

## Requirements

- Python 3.12+ (required for Streamlit Cloud compatibility)
- Streamlit 1.36.0+
- yfinance
- pandas
- numpy
- plotly
- TA-Lib

## Installation

### For Local Development

```bash
# Install Python dependencies
pip install -r requirements.txt

# For TA-Lib installation on macOS
brew install ta-lib

# For TA-Lib installation on Linux
sudo apt-get install build-essential
pip install TA-Lib
```

### For Streamlit Cloud

Streamlit Cloud uses Python 3.13 and has TA-Lib pre-installed. The requirements.txt file contains compatible versions for all packages.

## Running the Application

### Local Development

```bash
# Install dependencies
pip install -r requirements.txt

# Start the Streamlit application
streamlit run bot.py
```

### Streamlit Cloud Deployment

1. **Create a GitHub repository** with all the files (`bot.py`, `README.md`, `requirements.txt`)
2. **Go to Streamlit Cloud** (https://share.streamlit.io/)
3. **Click "New app"** and connect to your GitHub repository
4. **Configure the app**:
   - Repository: Your GitHub repo
   - Branch: main/master
   - Main file path: `bot.py`
   - Python version: 3.9 or 3.10 (recommended)
5. **Click "Deploy"**

### Common Streamlit Cloud Issues

**ModuleNotFoundError**: Ensure your `requirements.txt` file is complete and in the root directory

**TA-Lib installation**: Streamlit Cloud has TA-Lib pre-installed, but if you have issues:
- Use the exact versions in `requirements.txt`
- Try Python 3.9 instead of newer versions

**App not updating**: Clear cache and restart the app in Streamlit Cloud settings

## Usage Instructions

### Historical Analysis Mode

1. **Select Strategy Type**: Choose "Historical Analysis" from the sidebar
2. **Enter Parameters**:
   - **Stock Ticker**: Enter a valid stock symbol (e.g., "AAPL", "MSFT", "GOOG")
   - **Start Date**: Use format YYYY-MM-DD (e.g., "2023-01-01")
   - **End Date**: Optional - leave blank for today's date
3. **Run Strategy**: Click "Run Historical Strategy"
4. **View Results**:
   - Interactive chart with price action and indicators
   - Data tables showing raw prices, indicators, and signals
   - Signal summary with counts of initial vs confirmed signals

### Real-Time Simulation Mode

1. **Select Strategy Type**: Choose "Real-Time Simulation" from the sidebar
2. **Enter Parameters**:
   - **Stock Ticker**: Enter any stock symbol
3. **Start Simulation**: Click "Start Real-Time Simulation"
4. **Monitor Updates**:
   - Data updates every 10 seconds
   - Watch signals generate in real-time
   - See support/resistance validation in action
5. **Stop Simulation**: Click "Stop Real-Time Simulation" when finished

## Signal Interpretation

### Signal Types

- **Yellow Triangles (▲)**: Initial buy signals (MA crossover only)
- **Orange Triangles (▼)**: Initial sell signals (MA crossover only)
- **Lime Triangles (▲)**: Confirmed buy signals (MA crossover + resistance breakout)
- **Red Triangles (▼)**: Confirmed sell signals (MA crossover + support breakdown)

### Chart Elements

- **Black Line**: Close price
- **Orange Line**: 20-day Moving Average
- **Green Line**: 50-day Moving Average
- **Red Line**: 200-day Moving Average
- **Blue Dashed Lines**: Bollinger Bands
- **Green Dotted Line**: Support level
- **Red Dotted Line**: Resistance level

## Troubleshooting

### Common Issues

**"Failed to fetch data" error:**
- Check your internet connection
- Verify the ticker symbol is correct
- Try a different date range
- Use recent dates (past 5 years work best)

**TA-Lib installation issues:**
- Ensure you have the system dependencies installed
- On Windows, you may need to download TA-Lib binaries
- On Linux/macOS, use the package manager as shown above

**Real-time simulation not updating:**
- Check the console logs for errors
- Ensure no other process is blocking the Streamlit port
- Try refreshing the browser page

## Strategy Logic

### Signal Generation Process

1. **Moving Average Crossover Detection**
   - Buy signal: 20MA crosses above 50MA
   - Sell signal: 20MA crosses below 50MA

2. **Support/Resistance Validation**
   - Buy confirmation: Price breaks above resistance level
   - Sell confirmation: Price breaks below support level

3. **Signal Filtering**
   - Only confirmed signals are considered high-quality
   - Initial signals may be false breakouts

### Support/Resistance Calculation

- **Support**: 20-period rolling low
- **Resistance**: 20-period rolling high
- Dynamically updates with new price data

## Technical Indicators

- **Moving Averages**: 20, 50, 200-day simple moving averages
- **RSI (14-period)**: Relative Strength Index for momentum
- **MACD (12,26,9)**: Moving Average Convergence Divergence
- **Bollinger Bands (20-period)**: Volatility bands with 2 standard deviations

## Risk Management Recommendations

While this application provides signals, always:
- Use proper position sizing (1-2% risk per trade)
- Implement stop-loss orders
- Consider market conditions and news events
- Backtest thoroughly before using real capital
- Consult with a financial advisor

## License

This project is for educational purposes only. Not financial advice.

Commit message:

Update README and requirements for Streamlit compatibility and deployment guidance

README.md, after:

# Advanced Trading Strategy with Support/Resistance Validation

A comprehensive trading strategy application with both historical analysis and real-time simulation capabilities.

## Features

### Enhanced Trading Strategy
- **Moving Average Crossover Signals**: 20-day MA crossing 50-day MA
- **Support/Resistance Validation**: Confirms signals only when price breaks key levels
- **Multiple Technical Indicators**: RSI, MACD, Bollinger Bands
- **Signal Quality Filtering**: Distinguishes between initial and confirmed signals

### Two Strategy Modes
1. **Historical Analysis**: Backtest strategies on historical data
2. **Real-Time Simulation**: Simulate live market conditions with streaming data

### Visualization
- Interactive Plotly charts
- Clear signal markers (initial vs confirmed)
- Support/resistance level visualization
- Moving averages and Bollinger Bands overlay

## Requirements

- Python 3.12+ (required for Streamlit Cloud compatibility)
- Streamlit (latest version)
- yfinance
- pandas
- numpy
- plotly
- TA-Lib (pre-installed on Streamlit Cloud)

## Installation

### For Local Development

```bash
# Install Python dependencies
pip install -r requirements.txt

# For TA-Lib installation on macOS
brew install ta-lib

# For TA-Lib installation on Linux
sudo apt-get install build-essential
pip install TA-Lib
```

### For Streamlit Cloud

Streamlit Cloud uses Python 3.13 and has TA-Lib pre-installed. The requirements.txt file uses latest versions of all packages which are compatible with Python 3.13+.

**Important**: If you encounter deployment issues:
1. Ensure you've pushed the latest requirements.txt to GitHub
2. Try restarting your app in Streamlit Cloud
3. Clear the app cache if needed
4. Check the deployment logs for specific error messages

## Running the Application

### Local Development

```bash
# Install dependencies
pip install -r requirements.txt

# Start the Streamlit application
streamlit run bot.py
```

### Streamlit Cloud Deployment

1. **Create a GitHub repository** with all the files (`bot.py`, `README.md`, `requirements.txt`)
2. **Go to Streamlit Cloud** (https://share.streamlit.io/)
3. **Click "New app"** and connect to your GitHub repository
4. **Configure the app**:
   - Repository: Your GitHub repo
   - Branch: main/master
   - Main file path: `bot.py`
   - Python version: 3.9 or 3.10 (recommended)
5. **Click "Deploy"**

### Common Streamlit Cloud Issues

**ModuleNotFoundError**: Ensure your `requirements.txt` file is complete and in the root directory

**TA-Lib installation**: Streamlit Cloud has TA-Lib pre-installed, but if you have issues:
- Use the exact versions in `requirements.txt`
- Try Python 3.9 instead of newer versions

**App not updating**: Clear cache and restart the app in Streamlit Cloud settings

## Usage Instructions

### Historical Analysis Mode

1. **Select Strategy Type**: Choose "Historical Analysis" from the sidebar
2. **Enter Parameters**:
   - **Stock Ticker**: Enter a valid stock symbol (e.g., "AAPL", "MSFT", "GOOG")
   - **Start Date**: Use format YYYY-MM-DD (e.g., "2023-01-01")
   - **End Date**: Optional - leave blank for today's date
3. **Run Strategy**: Click "Run Historical Strategy"
4. **View Results**:
   - Interactive chart with price action and indicators
   - Data tables showing raw prices, indicators, and signals
   - Signal summary with counts of initial vs confirmed signals

### Real-Time Simulation Mode

1. **Select Strategy Type**: Choose "Real-Time Simulation" from the sidebar
2. **Enter Parameters**:
   - **Stock Ticker**: Enter any stock symbol
3. **Start Simulation**: Click "Start Real-Time Simulation"
4. **Monitor Updates**:
   - Data updates every 10 seconds
   - Watch signals generate in real-time
   - See support/resistance validation in action
5. **Stop Simulation**: Click "Stop Real-Time Simulation" when finished

## Signal Interpretation

### Signal Types

- **Yellow Triangles (▲)**: Initial buy signals (MA crossover only)
- **Orange Triangles (▼)**: Initial sell signals (MA crossover only)
- **Lime Triangles (▲)**: Confirmed buy signals (MA crossover + resistance breakout)
- **Red Triangles (▼)**: Confirmed sell signals (MA crossover + support breakdown)

### Chart Elements

- **Black Line**: Close price
- **Orange Line**: 20-day Moving Average
- **Green Line**: 50-day Moving Average
- **Red Line**: 200-day Moving Average
- **Blue Dashed Lines**: Bollinger Bands
- **Green Dotted Line**: Support level
- **Red Dotted Line**: Resistance level

## Troubleshooting

### Common Issues

**"Failed to fetch data" error:**
- Check your internet connection
- Verify the ticker symbol is correct
- Try a different date range
- Use recent dates (past 5 years work best)

**TA-Lib installation issues:**
- Ensure you have the system dependencies installed
- On Windows, you may need to download TA-Lib binaries
- On Linux/macOS, use the package manager as shown above

**Real-time simulation not updating:**
- Check the console logs for errors
- Ensure no other process is blocking the Streamlit port
- Try refreshing the browser page

## Strategy Logic

### Signal Generation Process

1. **Moving Average Crossover Detection**
   - Buy signal: 20MA crosses above 50MA
   - Sell signal: 20MA crosses below 50MA

2. **Support/Resistance Validation**
   - Buy confirmation: Price breaks above resistance level
   - Sell confirmation: Price breaks below support level

3. **Signal Filtering**
   - Only confirmed signals are considered high-quality
   - Initial signals may be false breakouts

### Support/Resistance Calculation

- **Support**: 20-period rolling low
- **Resistance**: 20-period rolling high
- Dynamically updates with new price data

## Technical Indicators

- **Moving Averages**: 20, 50, 200-day simple moving averages
- **RSI (14-period)**: Relative Strength Index for momentum
- **MACD (12,26,9)**: Moving Average Convergence Divergence
- **Bollinger Bands (20-period)**: Volatility bands with 2 standard deviations

## Risk Management Recommendations

While this application provides signals, always:
- Use proper position sizing (1-2% risk per trade)
- Implement stop-loss orders
- Consider market conditions and news events
- Backtest thoroughly before using real capital
- Consult with a financial advisor

## License

This project is for educational purposes only. Not financial advice.
